***ANSWER ALL OF THE QUESTIONS BELOW***

What is a programming language?
Answer: A programming language is a vocabulary and set of grammatical rules for instructing a computer or computer device
to perform specific tasks.

What is a JDK composed of? Define each components?
Answer: JDK, also known as "Java Development Kit" is composed of the JRE and several development tools, an interpreter
(java), compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), and a documentation generator (javadoc). JRE stands for java runtime
environment. This environment is used only to run code, not to develop. Java then interprets and compiles that code to
machine language so the machine understands it. The archiver aggregates the many files into one. Javadoc is a document
generator tool for generating standard documentation in HTML format.


What is an IDE?
Answer: Integrated development environment is a software application that helps programmers develop software code
efficiently. It contains a code editor, a compiler or editor, and a debugger. This application increases developer
productivity by combining these capabilities.

What are some of the most popular Java IDEs available in the market?
Answer: IntelliJ, Eclipse, Visual Studio

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Answer: The first stage in the java life cycle begins with writing your code in the IDE. Next, your source file code
(.java file) is passed through the java compiler and gets converted into bytecode so the machine can understand your code
in their language. The content of each class inside your source file is stored as a separate ".class" file. The class
files generated by the compiler are independent meaning they can run on any OS. In order to run, the main class file is
passed to the JVM and then goes through three main before the final machine code is executed: ClassLoader, ByteCode
Verifier, Just-in-time Compiler. Finally, the final machine code is executed.


What is a class?
Answer: A class is the blueprint for creating objects and defining object data types and methods

What is an object?
Answer: A member or instance of the class.

What is the entry point of a Java project?
Answer: The Main method.

Why is the main() method static?
Answer: It belongs to the class itself.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
Answer: The parent class.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
Answer: Path is set for java tools in java programs like java and javac, which are used to compile your code. Classpath
is used by System or Application class loader to locate and load compile Java bytecodes in the .class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Answer: Abstract class can be made up of abstract and concrete methods. Interface class can only be composed of abstract
methods.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? If yes or no, how would you do it?
Answer: No you cannot because both of these classes have abstract methods and you cannot create objects here because they
cannot have blocks of code. In order o create an object, these classes need to have subclasses where they can implement
the methods.

What is Access Modifier?
Answer: Keywords in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes, methods, and other members.

What is OOP? Define each OOP concept.
Answer: OOP stands for object-oriented programming.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Answer:A Java package is used to group related classes. Java.lang package is imported by default.

What is an API? List some API's that you have used so far.
Answer: It is a document which gives you the list of all the packages, classes, and interfaces, along with their fields
and methods. Some examples of API's I've used so far are JSON, XML.

Does java support multiple inheritance? Why or why not?
Answer: No it does not because Java will get confused. If a child class ( who extends multiple parent classes) calls a
method that is shared by two parent classes (who have no knowledge of each other) Java will not know which method to
call since they have the same name.

What is method overloading? List all of the different ways to overload.
Answer: Method overloading, also known as polymorphism, is when there are multiple methods with the same name but
different type, numbers, number of parameters, or order of parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle them.
Answer: Exceptions are when there are errors in your code when you execute them. To handle them, you can use the try
catch method. You put your code in the try block and any exceptions that the code throws will be caught in the catch block.

What is static keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer: Static keyword means when a member of the class belongs to the class itself and not to the instance of the class.
You use this when you want a member of the class to be accessible to the entire class.

What is final keyword? When and how do we use it?
Answer: You use the final keyword in a method declaration to indicate that the method cannot be overridden by subclasses.
You can also use it for a variable to indicate that the value of that variable cannot be reassigned. You can also be used
in classes to indicate that the class cannot br extended. In all, final keyword is used when you don't want any changes
to be made for a variable, method, or class.

Explain the difference between final, finally and finalize?
Answer: Each of these keywords have a different functionality. The basic difference between final, finally and finalize
is that the final is an access modifier, finally is the block in Exception Handling and finalize is the method of object
class.

What is a constructor?
Answer: A constructor a special method used to create objects.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Answer: No. Every class has a default constructor but if you decide to create your own constructor, the default one
goes away. But, you can overload a constructor with different parameters.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Answer: Default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in Java? When would we use it?
Answer:The this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor. The most common use of the this keyword
is to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters with the same name (because a class attribute is
shadowed by a method or constructor parameter).

What is "super" keyword in Java? What are some scenarios we would use it?
Answer: It is used for parent classes who extend subclasses. We use this keyword to call methods of the superclass that
is overridden in the subclass. To access attributes (fields) of the superclass if both superclass and subclass have
attributes with the same name. To explicitly call superclass no-arg (default) or parameterized constructor from the
subclass constructor.

What does JVM stand for?
Answer: Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
Answer: Yes, it can run on any operating system.

What version of Java are you using?
Answer: Version 11.

What does JAR stand for?
Answer: Java Archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Answer: Java Virtual Machine (JVM) is an abstract machine responsible for compiling and executing Java code. It is a
part of the Java Runtime Environment (JRE) which calls the main function of a program. It is platform independent. Java
Development Kit (JDK) is a complete software environment for building applications and using the Java programming
language. It is platform-dependent. Therefore, it has different OS platform versions for Windows, Linux, Mac, etc. It
allows to read, write, and execute the java program.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
Answer: JRE identifies all the helpful class libraries needed for execution, while JVM is a subclass of JRE that decodes
the bytecode into machine language and other minor tasks.

Explain the difference between compile-time and run-time?
Answer: Compile time is when you are writing code and its is being converted into machine code, run time is when a
program runs after compiling it.

What is heap?
Answer: Heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM.

How does Java manage its memory?
Answer: Java does memory management automatically. Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage
collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
Answer:

What is Singleton class?
Answer: A class that can only have one object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Answer: Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream. Deserialization is the
reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory

Explain the difference between While and Do..While loops?
Answer: While loop checks the condition first and then executes the statement(s), whereas do while loop will execute the
statement(s) at least once, then the condition is checked.

What is Enum?
Answer: An enum is a special data type that enables for a variable to be a set of predefined constants. The variable
must be equal to one of the values that have been predefined for it.


What is Iterator?
Answer: An Iterator is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet. It is called
an "iterator" because "iterating" is the technical term for looping.

Which one will take more memory: an int or Integer? Why?
Answer: int is a primitive data type and takes 32 bits(4 bytes) to store. On other hand, Integer is an object which takes
128 bits (16 bytes) to store its int value. Therefore, an Integer takes more memory.

Why are Strings considered to be immutable in Java?
Answer: Strings cannot be changed when you use the String class.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Answer: The process of calling a sequence of constructors.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Answer: Parallel collector has multiple threads that are used to speed up garbage collection while serial collector has
a single thread to perform all garbage collection work, which makes it relatively efficient because there is no
communication overhead between threads.

What does JIT stand for?
Answer: Just-In-Time.

Explain the process of Java garbage collection?
Answer: Java garbage collection is an automatic process. The programmer does not need to explicitly mark objects to be
deleted. The garbage collection implementation lives in the JVM. Each JVM can implement garbage collection however it
pleases; the only requirement is that it meets the JVM specification.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
Answer: Yes because it happens automatically.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Answer: stack is used to store the order of method execution and local variables while the heap memory stores the objects
and it uses dynamic memory allocation and deallocation.

What is reflection in Java and why is it useful?
Answer:

What is multithreading in Java?
Answer:

What is synchronization in Java?
Answer:

What is a Framework?
Answer:

What are the testing Frameworks available in Java?
Answer:

What are jUnit and testNG?
Answer:

What are the dependencies for this project?
Answer:

What is dependency injection in Java?
Answer:

Explain what static binding and dynamic binding is?
Answer: